me:  Hey dude
I've got an ML question for you
http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/svm/plot_iris.html
if you look at that script
  around line 10 it says "h = .02 # step size in the mesh"
  what is "the mesh"?
   Sent at 6:18 PM on Thursday
    Will:  i'm pretty sure that's just the grid you plot in
    so you can think of a min and max x and y value, but then you need to divide that continuous space into discrete spaces to represent it in the computer
     me:  dude
     it's funny
      Will:  a smaller mesh size leads to a higher resolution plot
       me:  as you said that
       i had that exact though
       t
       I was thinking that the mesh represented some multidimensional universe or something
       ha
       but it's just like the base that my mother did her needlepoint in when I was a kid
        Will:  exactly  :-)
         Sent at 6:21 PM on Thursday
          me:  dude
          I honestly have absolutely no idea what I'm doing in my first project
          I have to create a KNN, NN, decision tree, SVM, and decision tree + boost
          for two classification problems
            so I'm just copying down the scitkit-learn samples right now
            and hoping something sticks after my trip home
            ha
             Will:  oh man, that's a pretty serious project
             are you allowed to use libraries like sklearn?
             or do you have to implement everything from scratch?
              Sent at 6:25 PM on Thursday
               me:  using libraries
               more emphasis is on the problem and the analysis
               it's 15% of my final grade
               it's due MOnday at 11:55 pm
               so I'm just slightly thankful I've got a few days
               but I'm somewhat freaking out
               haha
                Will:  oh man, yeah you should get on that!
                though if you can use sklearn then you've got a huge advantage
                because it literally implements all the learning algorithms you described
                actually, maybe not the NN
                 me:  well I'm working on it now
                  Will:  i know it does NNs, but i think they're just for unsupervised learning
                   me:  I have been for a couple days
                   I'm just not moving fast enough
                   ha
                    Sent at 6:28 PM on Thursday
                     me:  also I don't think I can get away with using the iris dataset
                     since, you know, ever sklearn example uses it
                      Sent at 6:29 PM on Thursday
                       me:  you know what? I think I'm going to be okay
                       I am just going to copy these scripts for now
                       let them marinate for a couple hours
                       re-read when I get home
                       dig into the documentation a bit
                       make them work for the data set I found
                       and see where it goes from there
                        Sent at 6:32 PM on Thursday
                         Will:  yeah dude, sounds like a solid plan!
                         so the assignment is to solve two classification problems with those algorithms?
                         any validation work?
                          Sent at 6:35 PM on Thursday
                           me:  yeah I'll have to do the testing
                           and show the results
                           so the point is basically like "i have these two classification problems, and I take these approaches, and these are my results, here's what I learned by doing this"
                           so the technical work is really just a part of it, I would say < 50%
                            Sent at 6:40 PM on Thursday
                             me:  got any suggestions on the validation work?
                             or the analysis?
                             or using a boosting alrgorithm?
                              Sent at 6:41 PM on Thursday
                               Will:  use this for validation: http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cross_validation.KFold.html#sklearn.cross_validation.KFold
                               as far as analysis, i'm not entirely sure what you mean
                               also, make sure you validate the parameters of your model
                               http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.grid_search.GridSearchCV.html#sklearn.grid_search.GridSearchCV
                               ^ that will let you specify a list of parameters to try
                                me:  what does that mean
                                "validate the parameters of the model"
                                ?
                                 Will:  so for instance, with SVMs you have a regularization parameter
                                 but what's the best value of that parameter given your data?
                                  me:  oh got it
                                   Will:  well, there's almost never an analytical way to find that value
                                   so you have to find it experimentally
                                    Sent at 6:46 PM on Thursday
                                     me:  okay got it
                                     that makes a lot of sense
                                      Will:  cool  :-)
                                      and sklearn has bagged and boosted versions of decision trees, so you should be all set there
                                       me:  okay
                                       what should I used for my neural network?
                                        Will:  i don't think the general ensemble tools have that though
                                         me:  what do you mean?
                                          Will:  oh, never mind: http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/classes.html#module-sklearn.ensemble
                                          for the adaboost and adabagged estimators, you can pass in a "base estimator"
                                             me:  so the base estimator would be my original decision tree?
                                              Will:  you would pass in an "unlearned" decision tree
                                              or svm
                                              or whatever you want
                                               me:  "unlearned" decision tree?
                                               I don't get it
                                                Will:  and as far as NNs go, sklearn doesn't look like it has a supervised neural network
                                                a decision tree object that has been instantiated, but hasn't been fit to any data
                                                 me:  oh
                                                 OHH
                                                 got i9t
                                                 it
                                                 thanks man!
                                                  Will:  np!
                                                  maybe you could take a look at pybrain: http://pybrain.org/
                                                   me:  okay
                                                    Will:  it dosen't look like it's under rapid development
                                                    it was recently tagged on the github page
                                                    so it is under some development
                                                     Sent at 6:53 PM on Thursday
                                                      Will:  also, i spent all day fucking around with HAProxy trying to get failover and monitoring to work properly, but had no luck  :-(
                                                      huge bummer
                                                      so i gotta talk to Clay tomorrow and try to get him to solve my problem for me  :-)
                                                       Sent at 6:55 PM on Thursday
                                                        me:  Clay is a very smart person
                                                        and talking to him in person always yeilds the best results :-D
                                                         Will:  yeah he's awesome
                                                         he pointed me in the right direction this morning, but i just haven't been able to get this to work how i need it to
                                                         i've read the manual twice
                                                         and the relevant parts at least 10 times
                                                         and haven't solved it yet
                                                          Sent at 6:57 PM on Thursday
                                                           me:  maybe you need to just step back
                                                           and let your brain marinate
                                                           that is the secret man
                                                           let your subconscious chew on it
                                                            Sent at 7:00 PM on Thursday
